## Translation

Note: Writing this was so boring and complicated, so I just stopped after a point. There is a full documentation from Wordpress and Django that you can find and read🤷‍♂️.

Making a site translatable, and translating it, needs to be easy, both for the developers and the translators.

Everyone knows Wordpress as an old tool that doesn't do a lot of things right, but here I see a lot of people talking about using JSON files for translations😐🔫. [Read more here](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/issues/1274#issuecomment-1138024049).

This is the way that I want to translate my site:
- <a href="https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/internationalization/how-to-internationalize-your-plugin" target="_blank">Wordpress</a> way of handling the translations.
- <a href="https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/i18n/translation" target="_blank">Django</a> kinda does the same.

### Basic

```HTML
<p>__(Hello World)</p>
```

It works <a href="https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/internationalization/how-to-internationalize-your-plugin/#basic-strings" target="_blank">the same as this</a>:

```PHP
echo __( 'WordPress is the best!', 'my-plugin' );
```

I don't know about the second argument. We probably need it if there is any translation needed inside the public components and resources like that, so the translations won't get messed up/mixed up with each other. If no `text_domain`(the second argument) were passed, use the default app translations (instead of not translating it like Wordpress), I guess.

### Using with variables

```HTML
<p>__(Hello {name})</p>
```

It works <a href="https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/internationalization/how-to-internationalize-your-plugin/#variables" target="_blank">the same as this</a>:

```PHP
printf(
  __( 'Your city is %s.', 'my-plugin' ),
  $city
);
```

But it will use the variable name as a placeholder instead of the `%s` nonsense, and it doesn't need an extra function to wrap it around.

### Don't escape HTML

```HTML
<p>_html(<span>Hello World</span>)</p>
```

It wont escape HTML tags anymore, same as `{@html}`. The same functionality needs to be available with other translation functions, for example `_x_html()`.

I was thinking, what if the user is able to use markdown for things like making the text bold, italic and etc? Just something to have in mind.

### Pluralization

```HTML
<p>_p(
  'There is {count} item',
  'There are {count} items',
  count
)</p>
```

### Disambiguation by context

```HTML
<p>_x('Post' ,'noun')</p>
<p>_x('Post' ,'verb')</p>
```

```HTML
<p>_u(Hello {name})</p>
```

Allows us to have the same translatable strings with a different translation.

### Not neeeded

- `_e()` - [Read more](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/_e)
- `_ex()` - [Read more](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/_ex)

### Comments for translators

TODO

### Why this syntax is better?

- It's much more readable, clean, and easy to write and remember in comparison to other solutions.
- It uses `__` instead of `t` because it's a known standard for translation.
